what is pitch dark if there really are
descending into the pitch black like
being in the nighttime they're searching
for creatures which look as though
they've come from a science fiction film
sea pens what beautiful we're very much
strange creatures on me yeah they're
good sea pens because they look like
this beautiful long haven't closed happy
we used to write with okay
like everything else beneath the tannin
layer these sea pens are animals
there's so little light here no plants
can survive where pixie punches there
you can see it turning it's apparent
each of these sea pens isn't a single
animal but a colony of individuals
working together as one different parts
of the colony has specialized functions
such as pumping water reproduction or
catching prey there's like the ultimate
in community living I've got myself
convinced I'm a hundred fifty meters
it's cold with dark clothes as we agreed
you see here
see Penn's come in and out of the
sediment but no one can see this
behavior because it happens so slowly so
the team has set up a time-lapse camera
to try to record it here for the very
first time almost completely disappeared
they pump water into themselves to bring
themselves as the sediment then when
they want to go back down they release
that water so they can retract the
speeded up footage shows how over four
hours some of the sea pens gradually
deflate and bury themselves in the
seabed
it's thought this behavior might protect
sea pens from predators and this may be
the first time that evidence has been
captured to confirm it close examination
of the time-lapse clip shows a yellow
sea slug a sea pen predator enter the
scene and make contact with some of them
each seep and it touches withdraws into
the sediment this has never been seen
before and will help us to understand
this little-known world of deep-sea
creatures